What I'd like to do now is go through
the solution to the exercise that I
just gave you so I'm looking at the code
pen that's called to 2c-end and
I've talked through my solution here so
let me just scrunch up this window and
show you what I have
here in terms of code.
So I just wrapped a row around these five
figures you actually didn't need to add
any additional classes to this or
anything but you do need to have of
course the parents and
the children that containers in the items,
you've got to have both of those things
together in order for Flexbox to work.
So having five figures there
on the page is lovely.
But that doesn't help you.
With Flexbox.
You've got to wrap something around it.
So that's what we did with the HTML.
And then here in the CSS well,
I'll start, start at the top.
So we're in our class
of row display of Flex,
flex flow row wrap,
justify content of space evenly.
That's so
that these boxes are spaced evenly.
Very nicely here across
the bottom just like that.
And I align the content in the center.
Okay, with a gap of 2%, and I put in the
minimum height of 100 VH viewport units,
and that is so that when we
went to the desktop dimension,
we had that ability for
all those things to go down to the bottom.
And we had the room to work to stack
things on top of each other here.
At that tablet dimensions.
Okay, so then here at tablet dimensions
I just set my flex-basis to 32%.
About a third of the screen here for
everything and the gap of 2% and
again, you can do the math
to figure that part out.
So then when you go into your media
queries you to ask yourself what changes.
So what changes as I move across from
small screen to big screen generally
speaking, it could also be from
big screen to small screen, but
what is changing and
those are the things we need to reset so
we don't have to completely reset our
declarations over and over and over again.
So in other words I don't have to say
display flex again inside of my desktop
media query.
I can just say this, I wanna change
my justify content from space
evenly at my tablet media query,
I wanna change it to justify content
of center when I get to the larger screen,
my align content which is center here,
okay, that gives us this
cool center sort of effect.
I'm going to change that instead to
flex end at those larger dimensions.
So everything is stacking up
here at the bottom of my screen.
In this particular case, everything packs
down here at the bottom and then the gap.
I read declared the gap.
I didn't actually have to do that,
but I read declared the gap of 2%.
And then I set up my figure width
here to be a flexspaces of 18.4%.
If you have a gap of 2% and you're working
with centered content here in order
to space things all out do the math that
was the number that I came up with okay so
you just type it in whatever
the number happens to be.
So that's how you could get a crazy
thing like this to happen now one of
the cool things about this particular
layout is this is a kind of layout
that was just not possible inside of grid.
So, the fact that we have these five
boxes and that they're centered here
very nicely on the webpage especially
at tablet dimensions that's not
something that you can do with grid it
is something that is unique to Flexbox.
>> Could you use the calc
function within flex basis?
>> Sure, yes, absolutely.
You can use the calc function.
So I have a course here front end
masters called advanced CSS layouts.
And in that course I walk through a whole
lot of Calc and CSS variable stuff,
to to do all kinds of different,
wild and crazy things with page layouts.
You could absolutely use Calc and
variables in anything that
I'm doing here today.
I've chosen not to use them in this
particular course because this is more
oriented towards beginning or beginners or
people who are focusing maybe on HTML and
CSS for the first time.
I know a lot of you
are learning JavaScript first,
and you're coming back and, and
learning HTML and CSS after the fact.
So to try to keep my examples as
straightforward and easy to read
as possible I've kept Calc and variables
out of it but if you're interested in
learning more about how you can do that
if you if you're not sure about how to do
that you can watch my advanced CSS
layouts course here at Frontend Masters